Dear Class:

As promised here is a preliminary guideline into the term paper
objectives and approach.

The objective of writing a term paper in 573 is to understand a
particular algorithm in depth --- the purpose of the algorithm and its
working; its mathematical properties and importantly how it is/has
been used and its impact.  You must identify and make a connection
between the algorithm under investigation and a
science/engineering/commercial application. You must not investigate
the same algorithm as you will for your Project!

Many of you will go onto write a thesis of some sort - PhD, Masters,
MS Techical Paper. Think of a term paper as a mini-thesis, that does
not have to be based upon original work, but nonetheless entails
scholarly investigation of a topic/subject. If nothing else, writing a
term paper will provide the necessary practice for a more involved
thesis later onwards.

Typically each term paper will be broken into 4 parts:

i. Introduction,

ii. Main [Description, Analysis]

iii. Application Usage and

iv. related and relevant work/conclusion/summary. Appropriate
References are critical, as is an abstract.

Some general points:

* Know what you want your reader to learn from your paper. Identify
the relevant information in every paper.

* The purpose of your paper is never to summarize a particular
paper. You refer to other papers either to compare them with each
other, or to relate them to your own work.

And Remember:

* Your English doesnâ€™t have to be flawless, but your text must be as
grammatically correct as possible, for it is impossible to separate
content from language

* Plagarism alert. Many different and subtle forms of Plagiarism. Some
unintentional, e.g., copy/cut-and-paste text very generously!

Several of you have asked for term paper samples. Please find samples
at:

https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0B4xMi5S-VFVRflZ1ZnphQnlzNW5mUDFremkzRTZaSU9EQzNvd1pPa3NBNmxBbHBUSXRGVDQ

Please note they are only samples provided as guidance.

Best,
Shantenu
